CSE 109 Programming Assignment 1
Due: Thursday 9/8/16 at 11:00 PM
Project Name: Prog1
Note: All file and folder names in this document are case-sensitive.
Note: That this is Programming Assignment 1. There are two types of
assignments in 109 – homework and
programs.
Collaboration Reminder
* You must submit your own work.
* In particular, you may not:
 - Show your code to any of your classmates.
 - Look at or copy anyone else's code.
 - Copy material found on the Internet.
 - Work together on an assignment
1. Log into your account on sunlab.cse.lehigh.edu.
2. Create a sub-folder named Prog1 in your cse109.164 folder. cd into
that folder.
3. Create a git repository in the Prog1 folder. (git init)
4. Run emacs and create a C source code file named prog1.c in the
Prog1 folder. All of your code will go
into this source file.
5. Add the comment block shown below to the top of the file
prog1.c. Substitute your name and user id
(eg. jaf207 – do NOT use your LIN).
6. Create a main function and any additional functions necessary to do
the following:
1. Create a filter program that reads from standard input and writes
to standard output.
2. The program should read the input text line for line, and, if there
are no command line options, then
write each line as is to standard output.
3. Do the following for each of the following command line options:
1. -u – convert all the text to upper case.
2. -l – convert all the text to lower case.
3. Any other option should cause an “Invalid command line option”
message along with the option
itself to be displayed to standard error before quitting the program.
7. Compile your program using the command: gcc -o changetext prog1.c
8. Run the program as part of a pipe, eg.: cat mytextfile | changetext
-u | more. Myfile should be a text file
that contains several screens worth of text.
9. When your program is sufficiently tested, run “git add prog1.c” to
stage your file for addition to the git
repository. Then run “git commit -m 'Initial commit' “ to commit the
file to the repository.
10. Run tar -czvf Prog1.tar.gz Prog1/ from the cse109.164 folder to
zip up your assignment.
11. Transfer the Prog1.tar.gz file to a system where you can upload it
to Coursesite.
